---
title: "Work in progress"
date: 2024-02-23
---

TL;DR work is still in progress, ETA unknown, but please be hyped!

# Apology

I apologize for the slowdown of the updates. My certain real life megaproject finally got rolling, kids found new ways to be kids, and I had to deal with a certain rabbithole for the greater good, and I made a judgement about Ancient Star that doesn't mesh well with the previously listed facts.

# Espionage

That jugement call was implementing espionage. All the prep work has been done, the idea has been elaborated and "all" that was left was to materialize the idea. Unfortunately this not something that can be released little by little so there will be no content updates until it's 80% done.

Espionage in the Ancient Star will deviate significantly from the Master of Orion lineage. It will focus on giving you knowledge about the party you spy on, and as the rest of the game's philosophy, I'll try to make as much of it on the map as possible. This means inflitration will happen by moving a spy unit around like a star fleet and having it enter a colony like a troop ship. Spawning and movement of an infiltrator will be automized according to your desired espionage settings for the colony, as per "less micromanagement" philosophy. After establishing a spy network on a colony you'll at first get basic vision information, as if you have a fleet in orbit, and options to do more advanced operations. One will is give you the vision of nearby colonies of the same player, giving you opportunity to infitrate there too and keep tab on that player's assets. Other operations need a bit more time on the whiteboard but the general idea is to give you buffs for combat actions at infiltrated star systems.

What will make espionage different from other game mechanics are random outcomes, in both chance and magnitude. For example, getting info about surrounding systems would roll for success, and how many systems gets revealed depends on how high the roll was. And similarily, the opponent's counterintelligence will roll for how suspicious they get, helping them track down your spy networks. In a way this will be a testbed for potential future rework of space and ground combat where I'd like to see randomness work more like story teller then an accumulation of hit and miss rolls.

# Rewrite

In parallel to all that I've been working on recreating the game in the LibGDX framework. It's a game development framework that handles hardware accelerated graphics, sounds effects, music, input, UI, and the like in game kind of app way. Currently published version of the Ancient Star uses no game framework. It's built on top of the most basic Android app framework, belive it or not. There are limits to how far it can be stretched, and while this game is not hitting those limits too hard, it's becoming increasingly more difficult. While it does use hardware acceleration under the hood it's pretening it does not and it's making wrong judgement calls that result in the severe loss of performance for what should be simple drawing operations.