---
title: "New names"
date: 2025-03-19
---

Changing computer player names in v3.28 update is a quick change I could do during rewrite, but I hope players would appreciate it. 

An interesting side effect of coming up with space empire names is how mind unfolds the story behind them. When I was trying to sketch campaign plot I had hit writer’s wall. I had no good idea how to invent a conflict out of “humanity colonizes the rest of the galaxy”. Sure, you come up anything and beat it into coherence but that was the problem, any point can be a starting point, and it could go in any direction for good while. New names helped me to pick a few points and draw some lines.
*	Sol Federation – the good old Earthlings who stayed in the Solar system. They exert their political influence on nearby star systems so most of those systems are part of federation too. The federation is highly advanced technologically due to being the oldest but their representatives in the rest of the galaxy come from various eras.
*	Centauri Republic – Alpha Centauri star system(s) is a highly industrialized and sovereign partner to the Sol Federation. They are like Mars and Earth in Expanse and Warhammer 40k but on galactic level.
*	Sovereign Wolves – rebels from Wolf 359 who refused to become a part of Sol Federation. 
*	Orion Council – while Sol Federation is trying to be as centralized around Earth as possible, the Council tries to band up humanity in the wider region. I’m obliged to make a nod to Master of Orion games and our part of the galaxy happens to be called Orion Arm.
*	Sagittarius Federation – a federation of colonies around the center of the galaxy. They seek to become the center of humanity one day and black holes in the center are going to help them get there.
*	First Pioneers – splinter group of the very first colonization fleet. They got from star to star to establish a new colony, get it big enough to get resupplied and leave for new destination. 
*	Free Space Explorers – all about exploring space.
*	Andromeda Expedition – an organization that wants to build a big enough fleet to be self-sustaining during the trip to another galaxy.
*	Omega Directive – replicator probe sympathizers. So, the replicator probes are on the mission to slow down entropy as much as possible and normally the humanity is not very efficient about it. Omegas try to be in their grace and some even blame them for creating the probes.
*	Children of Galactica – believe the humanity should own the Galactica (Milky Way galaxy) as either homo sapiens or whatever form an individual chooses. They actively seek to destroy replicator probes, to the point where they’ve armed a star with an engine so the entire system can function as interstellar carrier. You might even call it a battlestar.
